Open a file
As this is a compressed file, Chirpity will extract it.
Once extracted, the spectrogram is created.
Exploring the transport controls, we can see the file name, play / pause, spectrogram zoom and filter panel
The filter panel allows you to turn on Nocmig mode, which limits file analysis to night time periods
Let's analyse the file.
When complete, any detections made appear below the spectrogram. Chirpity will jump to the location of the first detection and highlight it.
A right-click on the highlighted area opens a context menu.
Let's play this clip
Selecting another species that's been detected will instantly move you to that detection in the file
Click the expand icon at the top right of the spectrogram to enter fullscreen mode
Plus and minus keys zoom the spectrogram
Hold shift while pressing plus or minus to change the FFT window
Return to results view by pressing the fullscreen icon again
Another context menu option allows you to analyse just the highlighted portion of audio
You can also save the record to the archive database from here.
In the popup, you can tag the record, change the ID, add a call count and any comments you want to add.
A confirmation will appear...
You can use the filter panel to apply audio filters and reduce background noise.
These filters can be used to fine tune the audio for the best detection performance.
After re-running the analysis with the filters applied, we can see that two Spotted Crake calls were detected this time.
After saving records, they can be explored whenever you come back to the application, and you will find them under the Records menu.
Nocmig mode suppresses daylight records, so disable it to see them
alongside any previously saved records...
Thanks for watching!